# VfoJars   This is for the project JRX_TX which is an extension of JRX, a Java front end to HAMLIB for receiving only.   Paul Lutus wrote JRX and has an excellent support page with operating instructions.  The project aims to extend JRX to supporting the transmitter / transciever operation and add accessibility to the interface so that blind operators can operate any rig supported by HAMLIB.   The incentive came from using a IC-7100 which has a touch screen and massive capabilities that can only be operated using an extensive menu system.  Although the rig has speech, it really is not possible for a blind operator to use.  While developing JRX_TX, I found that it was much much easier to use the rig in all its glory, with the app.  Things like setting the squelch and rf gain independently become very easy.

Paul gave us a creative and simple way to store memory in "buttons" and use that memory in various ways like scanning.  So the intention is to support all the features of JRX while adding accessible "groups" that are recognized by voiceOver, and make navigation easier because you can pick a group instead of tabbing through all the settings.  Paul used JPanels to group controls.  VoiceOver does not recognize JPanel as a group.  So there is a lot of work in making an app accessible, partly because voiceOver is very limited in its grouping and has many controls that are not supported (like at present the JSpinner).

We reworked the VFO display control so that it can be used equally as well with the keyboard.  The right and left arrows move between the decade digits.  The up and down arrows increase and decrease the digit value.  That makes for very efficient band scanning at any decade you like.  Also, a really major improvement is to add voiceOver support to announce the VFO frequency as you adjust it.  Behind the scenes, a digit change event is handled, the new frequency is calculated by reading all the digits, and the description of each digit is updated with the new frequency.  That is a neat trick to make voiceOver anounce the new frequency.

One other major addition is to interface the mode changes and vfo changes with a locking mechanism (which forces a single access to the sendRadioData() method.  Because multiple threads can now access the VFO settings, it was neccessary to manage reentrancy to the VFO states and radio communications.

We are developing using a daily build from HAMLIB which supports many of the newer rigs.  It works pretty well and when released will be very exciting.  I have done extensive testing with the Icom ID-51A and the capabilities are vast.   The latest version supports the IC-7100 better and makes it possible to operate in transmit
modes that were previously not supported.
